# PaintApp - jward67

## What I planned to do for Sprint 3:
- Generate a new default canvas color upon generating a new file (i.e. change canvas to another color besides white). 
- Update the Top Readme with logo for project as well as add more information about application (Updated from Sprint 2)
- Develop a new layout to organize the custom widgets and buttons created for the user's convenience. 
  - Given how the ui for the main window (dubbed misc_paint) covers up the canvas generated by scribbleArea, I had to work around the lack of a built-in ui system and find a way to create and place widgets onto the application in a visually pleasing fascion.
- Generate smoother brush strokes with the brush tool (From Sprint 2)
  - While the brush tool does work as intended, painting in fast strokes causes the lines to become jagged when forming curves. My original plan of action was to find a way to ensure that the lines I create get updated more frequently than the default set up (down to about a milli-second or a nano-second if I can pull it off somehow).

## What I did not do:
- Update lines in brush strokes to make them smoother {[issue #19](https://github.com/utk-cs340-spring22/PaintApp/issues/19#issue-1179836315)}
  - Unfortunately, there does not seem to be a good opportunity to work on updating the lines in brush strokes since it would require me to experiment on how to update the lines every milli-/nano-second. I am unsure if there is a way to actually speed up the updating process, so I'm afraid to say that I may have to leave out this issue for the rest of the project. I appologize for the inconvenience that the jagged lines may bring for every fast stroke generated and hope that the current status of the brush offers enough to the user.

## Problems that I encountered during production:
- Managing the QGroupBox and QGridLayout classes for the layout of the widgets and buttons.
  - It was my group's first time managing a ui-system generated in a .cpp file, so creating the layout of the ui by scratch proved to be somewhat difficult. Some of the problems that came up included awkward placement of textlabels and other buttons/widgets "stretching" or overlapping each other upon assigning them spanning rows/columns inside the code. I had to experiment with the classes a little to understand how they worked and figure out what I could do to organize every widget available.
- Failing to specify what the "default color" was supposed to be for.
  - This mistake was entirely my fault since I never specified the usage: I originally assigned the default color to the app's pen instead of the actual canvas upon loading, and the lack of clarification confused even my group at first.

## What I've accomplished in Sprint 3:
- Generate a new default canvas color upon creating a new file {[issue #33](https://github.com/utk-cs340-spring22/PaintApp/issues/33#issue-1196390507)}
- Revise the Top README file with more information {[issue #23](https://github.com/utk-cs340-spring22/PaintApp/issues/23#issue-1188408225)}, namely:
  - A notice for additional functionality for PaintApp (i.e., Undo & Redo by Lullabi)
  - A (crude) logo for the project; made using the actual application itself!
  - More licensing info for the project (including a MIT License as well as a third party license file)
- Developed a new layout for (most of) the buttons and widgets created so far {[Issue #38](https://github.com/utk-cs340-spring22/PaintApp/issues/38#issue-1210428233)}
  - After reviewing the basics for the classes provided in QT's class definitions, I managed to create a beta layout of the widgets and buttons that would be used to help the user modify the brush while appearing visually pleasing and being easy to navigate. There will be a few more modifications that I will need to make after everyone finishes their portions of the project, however.

Files that I've worked on (details found in jward67.commits.txt):
- paint_app_tut/winsize.ui
- paint_app_tut/winsize.h
- paint_app_tut/misc_paint.h
- paint_app_tut/scribblearea.h
- paint_app_tut/winsize.cpp
- paint_app_tut/misc_paint.cpp
- paint_app_tut/scribblearea.cpp
- README.md
- LICENSE.txt
- LICENSE.3rdparty

In summary, I feel that I made some progress in this sprint after finding a way to manage the layout of the application and updating the color of the canvas. It may not be much, but this is a huge improvement to the crude layout that we've had in previous sprints!
